README.md, before:

# Welcome to [Data Stack Academy](https://www.datastack.academy/)!
<img style="float: right;"
    src="imgs/home-hero.svg" 
    alt="a picture of a person with long brown hair sitting behind a desk with a laptop next to a green plant."
    >

## The Data Engineering Hub

Welcome to the intro repository for Data Engineering Bootcamp. This repository contains the first 2 chapters of our larger data engineering curriculum, which is taught in a 17-week bootcamp. This public preview is limited to the Getting Started Guide and first two chapters of material.

Learn more about the course at [datastack.academy](https://www.datastack.academy/)!


## Getting Started

First, take a look at the [daily setup instructions](./getting-started/daily_setup.md) in the Getting Started Guide to set up your development environment. If you're on Windows, please also follow the instructions in the [Windows setup guide](./getting-started/window-setup.md), so you can follow along with the Unix bash terminal lessons.

This information will have you install all the necessary software to start this course.



### Bootcamp Overview

Section 1: Foundations

1. [Intro](./chapters/ch1_intro/)

1. [Python pt.1](./chapters/ch2_python1/)

1. Python pt.2         

1. Pandas        

1. Team Week                                                      

Section 2: Data Modeling, SQL, and the Cloud

6. SQL                                                      

7. Cloud, BQ, Data Studio              

8. Data Modeling          

9. Data Build Tool (dbt)                                                      

10. Team Week        

Section 3: Airflow and Spark

11. Airflow pt.1            

12. Airflow pt.2            

13. Spark pt.1          

14. Spark pt.2          

15. Team Week        

Section 4: Capstones

16. Visualization           

17. Capstones            

Each chapter is contained in its own folder, which contains an overview, episode links, and code and data resources. The bootcamp covers one chapter a week. Every week finishes with a graded project which ties together all of the week's material and builds on skills learned earlier in the course.


## Spread the word

We offer our data engineering bootcamp in multiple cohorts during the year. Please help spread the word to friends and family. This bootcamp is geared for non-technical folks making a complete career change.

For more information visit our website: [datastackacademy.com](https://datastack.academy)

Or [download](https://storage.googleapis.com/kitten-storage/DataStackAcademy_brochure_v2022.06.02-md.pdf) a small brochure including the main highlights.

[![Brochure](imgs/PamphletThumbnail.jpg)](./docs/DataStackAcademy_brochure_v2022.06.02-md.pdf)

Commit message:

add note about Colab notebooks online

README.md, after:

# Welcome to [Data Stack Academy](https://www.datastack.academy/)!
<img style="float: right;"
    src="imgs/home-hero.svg" 
    alt="a picture of a person with long brown hair sitting behind a desk with a laptop next to a green plant."
    >

## The Data Engineering Hub

Welcome to the intro repository for Data Engineering Bootcamp. This repository contains the first 2 chapters of our larger data engineering curriculum, which is taught in a 17-week bootcamp. This public preview is limited to the Getting Started Guide and first two chapters of material.

Learn more about the course at [datastack.academy](https://www.datastack.academy/)!


## Getting Started

First, take a look at the [daily setup instructions](./getting-started/daily_setup.md) in the Getting Started Guide to set up your development environment. If you're on Windows, please also follow the instructions in the [Windows setup guide](./getting-started/window-setup.md), so you can follow along with the Unix bash terminal lessons.

This information will have you install all the necessary software to start this course.

> If you prefer, it's possible to skip the setup and follow along with most of the material by running notebooks in [Google Colaboratory online](https://colab.research.google.com/), instead of in your local VS Code.

### Bootcamp Overview

Section 1: Foundations

1. [Intro](./chapters/ch1_intro/)

1. [Python pt.1](./chapters/ch2_python1/)

1. Python pt.2         

1. Pandas        

1. Team Week                                                      

Section 2: Data Modeling, SQL, and the Cloud

6. SQL                                                      

7. Cloud, BQ, Data Studio              

8. Data Modeling          

9. Data Build Tool (dbt)                                                      

10. Team Week        

Section 3: Airflow and Spark

11. Airflow pt.1            

12. Airflow pt.2            

13. Spark pt.1          

14. Spark pt.2          

15. Team Week        

Section 4: Capstones

16. Visualization           

17. Capstones            

Each chapter is contained in its own folder, which contains an overview, episode links, and code and data resources. The bootcamp covers one chapter a week. Every week finishes with a graded project which ties together all of the week's material and builds on skills learned earlier in the course.


## Spread the word

We offer our data engineering bootcamp in multiple cohorts during the year. Please help spread the word to friends and family. This bootcamp is geared for non-technical folks making a complete career change.

For more information visit our website: [datastackacademy.com](https://datastack.academy)

Or [download](https://storage.googleapis.com/kitten-storage/DataStackAcademy_brochure_v2022.06.02-md.pdf) a small brochure including the main highlights.

[![Brochure](imgs/PamphletThumbnail.jpg)](./docs/DataStackAcademy_brochure_v2022.06.02-md.pdf)
