getting-started/README.md, before:


## Overview

Welcome to Data Stack Academy's Data Engineering Bootcamp! 

We believe that we have put together a course curriculum that is second to none. We hope you enjoy this course, and we are confident that you will learn the necessary skills to start a rewarding career in Data Engineering.

## First, the Terminal

In the instructions below an throughout this course, you'll see commands written in code blocks, like this:
```bash
some_command
```
The terminal is where you can navigate your file system, run code, and, like we're doing here, install software.

If you've never used the terminal on your computer before, open one now and type your very first command, which will return the name of the current user:

```bash
whoami
```

We'll learn more about commands in Chapter 1.

<br/><br/>

# Setting up your development environment

Before we begin to go through the course material, we need to install and configure all the tools necessary for this course. Data Engineering requires working with a lot of tools, so buckle down and make sure you follow this section completely.

Here's a quick look at what's needed:

1. **\*\*Windows User ONLY\*\*** [Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)](#windows-subsystem-for-linux-wsl)

    WSL enables Windows users to run a native Ubuntu bash terminal. This is important since Data Engineers mainly work with Linux environments.

1. [Visual Studio Code](#visual-studio-code-vs-code) (VS Code) & Data Engineering Extensions

    VS Code is a great tool for writing, running, and debugging code

2. [Python Setup](#python)

    Python is the programming language we use.

1. [Getting Started Test](#getting-started-test)

    Make sure everything's properly set up.


<br/><br/>

## Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)

**NOTE:** This section is only for **Windows users only**. Windows Subsystem for Linux (**WSL**) allows Windows users to run Ubuntu Linux natively. This course extensively uses a Unix bash terminal. This allows Windows users to follow along and run bash commands natively.

**NOTE**: Skip this step if you are on Linux or Ubuntu.

<br/>

Follow the instructions for [Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) setup](windows-setup.md). After WSL installation, return here and continue the next steps on this guide.

**NOTE:** As Windows users, you will install Python and the git repo (below) on your Ubuntu WSL machine, **NOT** your native Windows machine. You're welcome to install these on Windows as well (especially Python), but they run on WSL.

<br/><br/>

## Visual Studio Code (VS Code)

This section will guide through the installation of our favorite IDE (Integrated Development Environment) called **VS Code**.

1. Download and install [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download)

    **NOTE**: During the last step of the installtion, make sure to check all the boxes to add VS Code to your PATH and Explorer context menu.

1. **Native** Ubuntu users (only) can easily install VS Code via snap:

    ```bash
    sudo snap install code --classic
    ```

VS Code is very powerful since it provides a vast number of **extensions** to work with various development tools and libraries. These extensions make development a whole lot easier. 

### VS Code Extensions

Now, let's add the **top data engineering** extensions:

1. **Open** the Extension Tab on the right or hit `CTRL` + `SHIFT` + `X`
2.  **Search** and **install** the following extensions:

    **MUST HAVE**

    1. [Python](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.python) (by Microsoft)

    2. [Pylance](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.vscode-pylance) (by Microsoft)

    3. [Jupyter](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-toolsai.jupyter) (by Microsoft)

    4. [Markdown All in One](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=yzhang.markdown-all-in-one) (by Yu Zhang)


    **NICE TO HAVE**

    1. [Code Runner](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=formulahendry.code-runner) (by Jun Han)
    2. [CSV Rainbow](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=mechatroner.rainbow-csv) (by mechatroner)
    4. [Code Spell Checker](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=streetsidesoftware.code-spell-checker) (by Street Side Software)
   
### VS Code Basics

There are a few **important** keyboard **shortcuts** in VS Code that you must **memorize**:
1. `CTRL` + `SHIFT` + `P`: opens the VS Code command prompt
2. `CTRL` + `P`: opens files from command prompt
3. `CTRL` + `SHIFT` + `F`: searches the entire project
4. `CTRL` + `SHIFT` + `V`: opens a markdown file in preview mode (html formatted)
5. `CTRL` + `` ` ``: toggles the terminal
6. `F5`: starts debugging

### Opening Projects

You can use the **File** menu to open new or existing VSCode projects.

You can also open a project in VS Code from the terminal. This is sometimes useful when you are navigating between project folders and need to quickly view the code in your working directory in VSCode. This works out of the box on Linux and Windows; Mac users follow [this additional step](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/mac#_launching-from-the-command-line). Then, you can run:

```bash
code .
``` 
and VS Code will open a window with the contents of the current directory.

### Viewing Markdown Files

To read the Markdown instructions files:
1. Open the markdown `.md` file
2. Press `CTRL` + `SHIFT` + `V` 

This renders the markdown file as **HTML** which is a lot easier to read and follow.

<br/><br/>

## Python

<br/>

**NOTE**: WSL users must install python under their WSL Ubuntu terminal. Follow the Ubuntu instructions below. You can additionally install on Windows itself if you prefer to have both.

<br/>

This course is developed for **Python version 3.7**. 

Even though Python 3.9 and 3.10 are currently available, a lot of the dependency packages in this course don't support them. You are free to install other versions (ie: 3.9 or 3.10) but you must have a working version of Python 3.7. In fact, it's very common to have multiple versions of Python installed.

Check to see if you already have Python installed

```bash
python3 -V
```

- You can skip this section if you see any version that starts with `3.7.*` (here we have 3.7.13).  
- Don't worry if you see another version or nothing at all. That just means we need to install it.

Follow the instructions below if you do **NOT** have Python 3.7 installed. 

<br/>


We have included installation steps for Mac OS, Ubuntu, and WSL (Windows) below but if you run into issues there are alternative ways:

- The easiest way is to Google "install python3.7 <your operating system>" for example _"install python3.7 ubuntu 20.04"_ or _"install python3.7 Mac OS X"_. Follow the instructions that you find for you operating system.
- You can download python3.7 installers from [python.org](python.org). If you decide to go this way, download and install the highest 3.7 version from python.org.

<br/>

### Ubuntu and Windows WSL

First add the *deadsnake* ppa repos which contain Python3.7 binaries:

```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install software-properties-common
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:deadsnakes/ppa
sudo apt-get update
```

Now, install Python 3.7 along with pip and virtualenv:

```bash 
# install python3.7, pip, and python virtualenv
sudo apt-get install python3.7 python3-pip python3-venv

# upgrade pip and other essential python packages
python3.7 -m pip install --upgrade setuptools pip virtualenv
```

Some users will need to add `pip` to their $PATH. **Skip** this step if you can successfully run this command in a terminal: `pip3 --version`

```bash
printf "\n\n# adding pip to \$PATH\nexport PATH=\$PATH:/home/${USER}/.local/bin" >> ~/.bashrc
source ~/.bashrc
```

### Mac OS

Use brew to install python 3.7, pip, and virtualenv:

```bash
brew install python3.7

# install pip (python package manager)
curl https://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py -o get-pip.py
python3.7 get-pip.py

# upgrade pip and other essential python packages
python3.7 -m pip install --upgrade setuptools pip virtualenv
```

<br/><br/>

## Jupyter Notebook

Many of the code examples for this course are in [Jupyter notebook](https://ipython.org/ipython-doc/3/notebook/nbformat.html). Jupyter notebooks have become the standard for interactive, collaborative programming and reproducible research. Nearly all data analysts, scientists, and engineers use these notebooks regularly as part of their work.

Installing Jupyter (with pip) is easy and the same across all systems. Simply run:

```bash
pip install jupyterlab
```

Jupyter Notebook uses the file extension of `.ipynb`. We call these file **notebooks**. You work with notebooks in either one of the two options below:
1. [VS Code](#working-with-vs-code)
2. [Jupyter-lab browser-based UI](#working-with-jupyter-lab)

### Working with VS Code

The easiest way to work with notebooks is directly inside VS Code. Make sure you have the VS Code [Jupyter](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-toolsai.jupyter) extension installed and enabled. Then, simply open `ipynb` files in VS Code. You will later learn [how to run notebooks](/deb/ch1/ep1/README.md#working-with-notebooks-in-vs-code) inside VS Code.

### Working with Jupyter-lab

**NOTE:** This section is completely **optional** for your information only. You can skip this.

Jupyter comes with its own browser-based interface which is often useful. This allows  To run Jupyter Lab:

```bash
jupyter-lab
```

When you run this command, the last line will give you a **URL** to open:

![Launching Jupyter in a web browser](img/jupyter-browser-launch.png)

Copy the URL and open it in your browser:

![The Jupyter Lab interface](img/jupyter-interface.png)

Now, you can use the File menu to open any `ipynb` notebooks in your project. For more details, see the [official Jupyter installation guide](https://jupyter.org/install).

<br/><br/>


# Getting Started Test

This section checks to see if you have successfully finished setting up your environment. If everything is working correctly, you should be able finish this section without any issues. **Please** check with your instructor if you have any issues. 

Note: We anticipate most issues to arise from installing WSL. That's normal. 

Open a new bash terminal (or WSL terminal on Windows) and execute the commands below. **Copy** and execute each command **line-by-line**:

```bash
# --------------------------------
# check bash terminal
num=7; if (test $num -gt 5); then echo "bash-test: ok"; else echo "bash-test: failed"; fi


# --------------------------------
# test git 
git --version


# --------------------------------
# test python
python3.7 -V
pip3 -V
python3.7 -c "print('python-test: ok')"


# --------------------------------
# test python virtualenv (venv)
python3.7 -m venv venv
# if the above command doesn't work; then try this:
virtualenv -p python3.7 venv

# activate your venv, test it, deactivate it, and then remove it
source venv/bin/activate
pip install pandas
python -c 'import pandas as pd; print(pd.DataFrame(data={"venv-test": ["ok"]}))'
deactivate
rm -rf venv

# --------------------------------
# test vs code
code .

```

Commit message:

add instructions to clone repo

getting-started/README.md, after:


## Overview

Welcome to Data Stack Academy's Data Engineering Bootcamp! 

We believe that we have put together a course curriculum that is second to none. We hope you enjoy this course, and we are confident that you will learn the necessary skills to start a rewarding career in Data Engineering.

## First, the Terminal

The terminal is where you can navigate your file system, run code, and, like we're doing here, install software. In the instructions below an throughout this course, you'll see terminal commands written in code blocks, like this:

```bash
some_command
```

If you've never used the terminal on your computer before, open one now and type your very first command, which will return the name of the current user:

```bash
whoami
```
We'll learn more about commands in Chapter 1.

## Clone the Repository

All the files a project needs are kept in a _repository_. Most data engineering teams, including Data Stack Academy, keep their repositories on GitHub, the site you're on right now! To get a copy of a repository for your personal computer, where you can edit and run it, you'll have to make a clone.

In your terminal, run the command 
```bash
git clone https://github.com/datastackacademy/deb-intro.git
```
![terminal with clone command](./img/clone_command.png)

<br/><br/>

# Setting up your development environment

Before we begin to go through the course material, we need to install and configure all the tools necessary for this course. Data Engineering requires working with a lot of tools, so buckle down and make sure you follow this section completely.

Here's a quick look at what's needed:

1. **\*\*Windows User ONLY\*\*** [Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)](#windows-subsystem-for-linux-wsl)

    WSL enables Windows users to run a native Ubuntu bash terminal. This is important since Data Engineers mainly work with Linux environments.

1. [Visual Studio Code](#visual-studio-code-vs-code) (VS Code) & Data Engineering Extensions

    VS Code is a great tool for writing, running, and debugging code

2. [Python Setup](#python)

    Python is the programming language we use.

1. [Getting Started Test](#getting-started-test)

    Make sure everything's properly set up.


<br/><br/>

## Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)

**NOTE:** This section is only for **Windows users only**. Windows Subsystem for Linux (**WSL**) allows Windows users to run Ubuntu Linux natively. This course extensively uses a Unix bash terminal. This allows Windows users to follow along and run bash commands natively.

**NOTE**: Skip this step if you are on Linux or Ubuntu.

<br/>

Follow the instructions for [Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) setup](windows-setup.md). After WSL installation, return here and continue the next steps on this guide.

**NOTE:** As Windows users, you will install Python and the git repo (below) on your Ubuntu WSL machine, **NOT** your native Windows machine. You're welcome to install these on Windows as well (especially Python), but they run on WSL.

<br/><br/>

## Visual Studio Code (VS Code)

This section will guide through the installation of our favorite IDE (Integrated Development Environment) called **VS Code**.

1. Download and install [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download)

    **NOTE**: During the last step of the installtion, make sure to check all the boxes to add VS Code to your PATH and Explorer context menu.

1. **Native** Ubuntu users (only) can easily install VS Code via snap:

    ```bash
    sudo snap install code --classic
    ```

VS Code is very powerful since it provides a vast number of **extensions** to work with various development tools and libraries. These extensions make development a whole lot easier. 

### VS Code Extensions

Now, let's add the **top data engineering** extensions:

1. **Open** the Extension Tab on the right or hit `CTRL` + `SHIFT` + `X`
2.  **Search** and **install** the following extensions:

    **MUST HAVE**

    1. [Python](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.python) (by Microsoft)

    2. [Pylance](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.vscode-pylance) (by Microsoft)

    3. [Jupyter](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-toolsai.jupyter) (by Microsoft)

    4. [Markdown All in One](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=yzhang.markdown-all-in-one) (by Yu Zhang)


    **NICE TO HAVE**

    1. [Code Runner](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=formulahendry.code-runner) (by Jun Han)
    2. [CSV Rainbow](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=mechatroner.rainbow-csv) (by mechatroner)
    4. [Code Spell Checker](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=streetsidesoftware.code-spell-checker) (by Street Side Software)
   
### VS Code Basics

There are a few **important** keyboard **shortcuts** in VS Code that you must **memorize**:
1. `CTRL` + `SHIFT` + `P`: opens the VS Code command prompt
2. `CTRL` + `P`: opens files from command prompt
3. `CTRL` + `SHIFT` + `F`: searches the entire project
4. `CTRL` + `SHIFT` + `V`: opens a markdown file in preview mode (html formatted)
5. `CTRL` + `` ` ``: toggles the terminal
6. `F5`: starts debugging

### Opening Projects

You can use the **File** menu to open new or existing VSCode projects.

You can also open a project in VS Code from the terminal. This is sometimes useful when you are navigating between project folders and need to quickly view the code in your working directory in VSCode. This works out of the box on Linux and Windows; Mac users follow [this additional step](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/mac#_launching-from-the-command-line). Then, you can run:

```bash
code .
``` 
and VS Code will open a window with the contents of the current directory.

### Viewing Markdown Files

To read the Markdown instructions files:
1. Open the markdown `.md` file
2. Press `CTRL` + `SHIFT` + `V` 

This renders the markdown file as **HTML** which is a lot easier to read and follow.

<br/><br/>

## Python

<br/>

**NOTE**: WSL users must install python under their WSL Ubuntu terminal. Follow the Ubuntu instructions below. You can additionally install on Windows itself if you prefer to have both.

<br/>

This course is developed for **Python version 3.7**. 

Even though Python 3.9 and 3.10 are currently available, a lot of the dependency packages in this course don't support them. You are free to install other versions (ie: 3.9 or 3.10) but you must have a working version of Python 3.7. In fact, it's very common to have multiple versions of Python installed.

Check to see if you already have Python installed

```bash
python3 -V
```

- You can skip this section if you see any version that starts with `3.7.*` (here we have 3.7.13).  
- Don't worry if you see another version or nothing at all. That just means we need to install it.

Follow the instructions below if you do **NOT** have Python 3.7 installed. 

<br/>


We have included installation steps for Mac OS, Ubuntu, and WSL (Windows) below but if you run into issues there are alternative ways:

- The easiest way is to Google "install python3.7 <your operating system>" for example _"install python3.7 ubuntu 20.04"_ or _"install python3.7 Mac OS X"_. Follow the instructions that you find for you operating system.
- You can download python3.7 installers from [python.org](python.org). If you decide to go this way, download and install the highest 3.7 version from python.org.

<br/>

### Ubuntu and Windows WSL

First add the *deadsnake* ppa repos which contain Python3.7 binaries:

```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install software-properties-common
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:deadsnakes/ppa
sudo apt-get update
```

Now, install Python 3.7 along with pip and virtualenv:

```bash 
# install python3.7, pip, and python virtualenv
sudo apt-get install python3.7 python3-pip python3-venv

# upgrade pip and other essential python packages
python3.7 -m pip install --upgrade setuptools pip virtualenv
```

Some users will need to add `pip` to their $PATH. **Skip** this step if you can successfully run this command in a terminal: `pip3 --version`

```bash
printf "\n\n# adding pip to \$PATH\nexport PATH=\$PATH:/home/${USER}/.local/bin" >> ~/.bashrc
source ~/.bashrc
```

### Mac OS

Use brew to install python 3.7, pip, and virtualenv:

```bash
brew install python3.7

# install pip (python package manager)
curl https://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py -o get-pip.py
python3.7 get-pip.py

# upgrade pip and other essential python packages
python3.7 -m pip install --upgrade setuptools pip virtualenv
```

<br/><br/>

## Jupyter Notebook

Many of the code examples for this course are in [Jupyter notebook](https://ipython.org/ipython-doc/3/notebook/nbformat.html). Jupyter notebooks have become the standard for interactive, collaborative programming and reproducible research. Nearly all data analysts, scientists, and engineers use these notebooks regularly as part of their work.

Installing Jupyter (with pip) is easy and the same across all systems. Simply run:

```bash
pip install jupyterlab
```

Jupyter Notebook uses the file extension of `.ipynb`. We call these file **notebooks**. You work with notebooks in either one of the two options below:
1. [VS Code](#working-with-vs-code)
2. [Jupyter-lab browser-based UI](#working-with-jupyter-lab)

### Working with VS Code

The easiest way to work with notebooks is directly inside VS Code. Make sure you have the VS Code [Jupyter](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-toolsai.jupyter) extension installed and enabled. Then, simply open `ipynb` files in VS Code. You will later learn [how to run notebooks](/deb/ch1/ep1/README.md#working-with-notebooks-in-vs-code) inside VS Code.

### Working with Jupyter-lab

**NOTE:** This section is completely **optional** for your information only. You can skip this.

Jupyter comes with its own browser-based interface which is often useful. This allows  To run Jupyter Lab:

```bash
jupyter-lab
```

When you run this command, the last line will give you a **URL** to open:

![Launching Jupyter in a web browser](img/jupyter-browser-launch.png)

Copy the URL and open it in your browser:

![The Jupyter Lab interface](img/jupyter-interface.png)

Now, you can use the File menu to open any `ipynb` notebooks in your project. For more details, see the [official Jupyter installation guide](https://jupyter.org/install).

<br/><br/>


# Getting Started Test

This section checks to see if you have successfully finished setting up your environment. If everything is working correctly, you should be able finish this section without any issues. **Please** check with your instructor if you have any issues. 

Note: We anticipate most issues to arise from installing WSL. That's normal. 

Open a new bash terminal (or WSL terminal on Windows) and execute the commands below. **Copy** and execute each command **line-by-line**:

```bash
# --------------------------------
# check bash terminal
num=7; if (test $num -gt 5); then echo "bash-test: ok"; else echo "bash-test: failed"; fi


# --------------------------------
# test git 
git --version


# --------------------------------
# test python
python3.7 -V
pip3 -V
python3.7 -c "print('python-test: ok')"


# --------------------------------
# test python virtualenv (venv)
python3.7 -m venv venv
# if the above command doesn't work; then try this:
virtualenv -p python3.7 venv

# activate your venv, test it, deactivate it, and then remove it
source venv/bin/activate
pip install pandas
python -c 'import pandas as pd; print(pd.DataFrame(data={"venv-test": ["ok"]}))'
deactivate
rm -rf venv

# --------------------------------
# test vs code
code .

```
